Joining me now
in studio is Israeli
ambassador to the United States,
Michael Herzog.
Before I start, of course,
I want to offer my deepest condolences
to the Israeli people
about what happened eight days ago.
Just a horrific, horrific attack,
a terrorist attack.
I think I speak for
for all of my viewers
and everybody at CNN when I say
our hearts are just broken
by what happened.
Thank you very much.
I really appreciate.
The
the this ground incursion
that we expect in the next.
Do we? Do we.
Can you give me any sort of
sense of timing?
Let's next week.
I know you have 300,000
reservists on the border.
And is it an operation
to rid Hamas
of its military
capabilities, its terrorist capabilities,
or is it an operation
to destroy Hamas completely?
So, as you noted, Israel was attacked.
Hamas waged war on Israel
and they carried out
one of the worst
terror attacks in world history,
if not the worst.
And we have no choice but to strike back.
And we are determined
to destroy the Hamas
war machine
so that they cannot threaten us again.
We do not want to be in that game where
every few years
they launch war against us or provoke us.
That's over.
And we are determined
to destroy the war machine.
We are preparing a ground operation.
I'm not going to go into details
and timetables and all that,
but we are at war
and we're going to fight that war.
And what is the plan
for after you accomplish the objective?
What does the end state
after the operation look like?
Will Israel reoccupying the Gaza Strip?
Will any
Palestinians who fled Gaza
be allowed back in?
So we have no desire to occupy
or re-occupy Gaza.
We have no desire
to rule over the lives of over
2 million Palestinians
and certainly
want people to go back to their homes
or talking about innocent civilians.
And we are doing everything we can
to keep them out of harm's way.
Well, Hamas is doing everything
it can to keep them in harm's way.
That's a situation we are at.
I think talking about the day
after is a bit premature because
crushing the Hamas war
machine will require time.
And the question you raise are valid.
And I think
we will have to enter discussions
with our partners,
with the international community about
the day after.
Haaretz editorial this
week said, quote, Israel's
most urgent task is to bring back
the Israelis
held by Hamas and Islamic
Jihad in the Gaza Strip.
And they point out
that your finance minister,
Bezalel Smotrich, reportedly argued in a
in a cabinet
meeting for Israel to, quote,
strike Hamas brutally
and not take the issue of the captives
into account too much.
And what Haaretz is arguing is, why not?
Why isn't the
why aren't the captives
why aren't the kidnaping victims
the number one priority?
Well, certainly
the issue of the kidnaped
Israelis and others is
is very much it's high on our agenda.
We are well aware
that we're still in the process
of forming a picture, understanding
how many people are there,
what is their condition,
what is their identity.
And certainly this is a consideration.
I don't want to comment about
statements by this or that politician.
All we say is that Hamas perpetrated
a war
crime and crimes against humanity
and taking hostages
and that we hold them accountable
to any harm that comes to
any of the hostages.
Hamas is claiming
that Israeli airstrikes have killed
at least 13 of the hostages in Gaza.
Do you have any idea if that's true?
I don't know.
I would be very careful
about what they say.
There's a lot of misinformation
and propaganda there.
And so I would be very careful and take
I would take what they say
with a grain of salt.
You said a week ago
it was premature to discuss
any deals for exchanging hostages.
Has that changed?
Is there any discussion about any
any prisoner swaps, hostage swaps?
We're not in that phase.
And as I said, we're in the middle of war
and we still have to know
how many hostages there are
and what is their condition.
So you obviously distinguish
between Hamas
and the 2.3 million Palestinians,
many of whom are prisoners of Hamas
in Gaza.
Israel has warned the 1.1 million
in northern Gaza to evacuate.
And and the U.S.
officials, the U.S.
has even said that's a tall order.
The U.N.
has said it's impossible
to get them all out.
What's the latest
on these humanitarian corridors
and letting the innocent victims of
of Hamas in many ways get out?
So I'm glad you asked the question.
Our enemy is Hamas.
It's not the Palestinian people.
It's not the innocent civilians.
Many of them are dying
because of Israeli bombardment.
They are used by Hamas as human shields.
That's why we call on them
to leave their homes,
because as we intense
intensify the war against Hamas and Hamas
war machine,
we don't want to harm any civilians.
And we ask them to move
to the south of Gaza from us.
In contrast,
asking them to stay
is forcing them to stay.
Right there, setting a blockade.
They are conscious, they confiscating
car keys and so on. We see all that.
They want to use them as human shields.